---
title: Conviction
description: On Taking a Bet
date: '2026-04-14'
categories:
  - work
published: true
---

I never thought I'd be one to stray from the well-trodden path - I remember insisting, just a year ago, that I'd never consider putting my education on pause. And yet, last week, I signed an offer to work as a member of technical staff, full time, rather than go back to school. Friends have joked since my second consecutive co-op term that I'd never go back to school, but I didn't think it'd actually happen: I've been working for the past three terms at various co-ops, but this feels different. This feels permanent. And while the process and turnaround between getting the offer and signing it has been quick, it is not for lack of deliberation - the question of whether to stay at work or return to school has been on my mind for months.

The first, crucial reason that I'm making this choice is because of the widening gap I'm seeing between school and a rapidly-accelerating industry. I'm sure I don't need to convince anyone of the fact that AI is transforming the way in which we think about and perform knowledge work, particularly in computer science and software engineering. Some say AI is overhyped - no more useful or capable than a tool like the calculator. Others believe that it'll automate all work in the time horizon of just a couple of years, leaving us mere mortals to grapple with a new definition of being. My perspective, for what it's worth, is that this is a seismic change - and yet, like every seismic change that has upended human society before, we as a civilization will adapt and find and define the next generation of work to be done. And so, in this era of massive change, I'd rather be right at the cutting edge, inventing the ways in which people operate within and alongside increasingly capable AI systems. I've been incredibly fortunate to be in an environment in which I have access to the latest paradigm-shifting AI tools, alongside an ecosystem of people who follow and eagerly embrace new developments in models and capabilities in real time. 

That brings me to the team and the work itself. There's something special about this team. I know that my experience is still relatively limited, but every single person I've talked to has felt it - it's something not quite describable about the culture and values, and the intermingling of each individual's capabilities and personality. With a team of this size, every person's presence and impact on this *je ne sais quoi* can be felt. It's an environment that is high-stress yet high-trust - this team, at times, has had more faith in me than I've had in myself, and every person is genuinely invested in a common success. Everyone puts their whole heart into their work, and that makes an immeasurable difference - to us, and also to our customers. There's also the talent density - in addition to caring very much, there is an indisputably impressive depth of experience. Our team has worked across big tech, quant, and scaling and exiting startups - and this is an expertise that shows, in the ways in which we problem solve and communicate. There is this collective curiosity (what I'd describe as a tendency towards getting 'nerd-sniped') that we indulge in - I've spent evenings solving puzzles and riddles, attending Columbia lectures, and even learning knot theory. These are engineers that have redefined, to me, what the craft of software means, and I feel incredibly lucky to be able to contribute and learn alongside them. 

Being here, at this company, in New York, feels right. This is my betting on myself - my choosing to maximize my surface area for luck, experience, and growth. School will always be there (and it is, even now, on the side), but this team, this crew aboard a quasi-rocketship-rowboat, is leaving fast - and I want to be on it. 